README.md, before:

# Enterprise-grade Reference Architecture for JavaScript

This repository contains the reference architecture and components for building enterprise-grade modern composable frontends (or micro-frontends) and cloud-native applications. It is a collection of best practices, architecture patterns, and functional components that can be used to build and deploy modern JavaScript applications to Azure.


[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://codespaces.new/Azure-Samples/contoso-real-estate?devcontainer_path=.devcontainer/devcontainer.json)

## Table of Contents

You can navigate through the documentation using the table of contents below:

- [Enterprise-grade Reference Architecture for JavaScript](#enterprise-grade-reference-architecture-for-javascript)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Architecture Diagram](#architecture-diagram)
  - [Simplified Flow Diagram](#simplified-flow-diagram)
  - [Components](#components)
    - [Frontend](#frontend)
    - [Backend](#backend)
    - [DevOps](#devops)
    - [Developer tools](#developer-tools)
  - [Development environment](#development-environment)
  - [Developer Guide (Website)](#developer-guide-website)
    - [1 | Preview Website](#1--preview-website)
    - [2 | Deploy Website](#2--deploy-website)
    - [3 | Test Website](#3--test-website)
  - [Usage costs](#usage-costs)
  - [Project structure](#project-structure)
  - [Deploy to Azure](#deploy-to-azure)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Deploy to Azure](#deploy-to-azure-1)
    - [Configure CI-CD](#configure-ci-cd)
    - [Clean up resources](#clean-up-resources)
  - [Want to help?](#want-to-help)

## Architecture Diagram

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/diagrams/e2e-full-horizontal.drawio.png" width="100%" alt="Application architecture diagram"/>
</p>

## Simplified Flow Diagram

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    %% 

    subgraph Internet
    Portal[https://portal.contoso.com]
    Blog[https://blog.contoso.com]
    CMS[https://cms.contoso.com]
    Stripe[https://stripe.contoso.com]
    API[https://api.contoso.com]
    end
    
    subgraph Azure API Management
    APIM(API Gateway)
    end
    
    subgraph Azure Static Web Apps
    SWA_Angular([Angular])
    end 

    subgraph Azure Functions
    Functions([Node.js])
    end 

    subgraph Azure Container Apps
    ACA_Next([Next.js])
    ACA_Strapi([Strapi])
    ACA_Stripe([Stripe])
    end 

    subgraph Database/Storage
    DB_PostresSQL[(PostgreSQL - Strapi)]
    DB_Mongo[(MongoDB - Portal)]
    Storage([Azure Blob Storage - CMS])
    end 

    Portal --> SWA_Angular -- "portal.contoso.com/api/**" --> APIM -- "portal.contoso.com/api/**" --> Functions
    
    Blog -- "blog.contoso.com" --> ACA_Next -. "Strapi API" .-> ACA_Strapi
    
    CMS -- "cms.contoso.com" --> ACA_Strapi
    ACA_Strapi -- "read/write" ----> DB_PostresSQL -- "read only" --> Functions
    ACA_Strapi -- "upload" --> Storage
    
    API --> APIM -- "api.contoso.com" --> Functions <-- "read/write" --> DB_Mongo

    Stripe ---> APIM -- "stripe.contoso.com" --> ACA_Stripe <-. "validate payment (through APIM)" .-> Functions
    
    %% Portal
    linkStyle 0 stroke:pink
    linkStyle 1 stroke:pink
    linkStyle 2 stroke:pink

    %% Blog
    linkStyle 3 stroke:blue
    linkStyle 4 stroke:blue
    linkStyle 5 stroke:blue
    
    %% CMS
    linkStyle 5 stroke:red
    linkStyle 6 stroke:red
    linkStyle 8 stroke:red
    
    linkStyle 7 stroke:lime
    linkStyle 9 stroke:lime
    linkStyle 10 stroke:lime
    linkStyle 11 stroke:lime
```

## Components

### Frontend

- [Angular](https://angular.io/) - The Portal application used to view and book listings.
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - The Blog application used to view and create blog posts.
- [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) - The end-to-end testing of the Portal application.
- [Azure Static Web Apps](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/app-service/static/) - The hosting of the Portal application.

### Backend

- [Strapi](https://strapi.io/) - The CMS application used to manage the data for the Portal and Blog applications.
- [Stripe](https://stripe.com/) - The payment processing.
- [Fastify](https://www.fastify.io/) - The API used that interfaces with the Stripe API and Portal application.
- [Azure Functions](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/) - The API used to communicate with Portal application.
- [MongoDB for Azure Cosmos DB](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cosmos-db/) - The database used to store the data for the Portal application.
- [Azure Database for PostgreSQL](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/postgresql/) - The database used to store the data for the CMS application.
- [Azure Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/storage/) - The storage used to store the data for the CMS and Blog application.
- [Azure Container Apps](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/container-apps/) - The hosting of the Blog, Stripe and Strapi APIs.
- [Azure Application Insights](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/monitor/) - Monitoring and accessing logs for the applications and APIs.

### DevOps

- [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) - Provisioning, managing and deploying the application to Azure.
- [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) - The CI/CD pipelines.
- [Azure Developer CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/overview) - The CI/CD pipelines.

### Developer tools

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) - The local IDE experience.
- [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces) - The cloud IDE experience.
- [Azure Static Web Apps CLI](https://azure.github.io/static-web-apps-cli/) - Accelerates the process of building cloud apps on Azure.

## Development environment

This project is optimized for use with [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces), a development environment hosted in the GitHub cloud. Here is how to get started:

1. Fork this repository.
1. Create a new GitHub Codespaces from your fork. This will automatically provision a new Codespaces with all the required dependencies preinstalled and configured.
1. Open the terminal and run `npm install && npm start` to start the development servers.
  *Note: Codespaces will show a series of windows on the right side of the screen while starting all servers. This is normal and expected.*
1. Once all dev servers have started, the following URLs will be available:

| Application    | URL                                                      | Port |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ---- |
| Portal         | https://YOUR-REPO-4280.preview.app.github.dev:4280       | 4280 |
| Blog           | https://YOUR-REPO-3000.preview.app.github.dev:3000       | 3000 |
| Strapi CMS     | https://YOUR-REPO-1337.preview.app.github.dev:1337/admin | 1337 |
| Serverless API | https://YOUR-REPO-7071.preview.app.github.dev:7071/api/  | 7071 |
| Stripe API     | https://YOUR-REPO-4242.preview.app.github.dev:4242       | 4242 |

> _Note: The URLs above are just examples. The URLs will be different for your fork. The ports however will be the same._

## Developer Guide (Website)

The project has a  [Developer Guide](./packages/docs/website/README.md) defined under `packages/docs` and implemented as an interactive website using the [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io) platform.
### 1 | Preview Website 

 - Read the [website/README](./packages/docs/website/README.md) for more details on setting up and building this package. 
 - Use the following instructions for a quickstart.

```bash
$ cd packages/docs/website     # Set working directory
$ npm install                  # Install dependencies
$ npm run start                # Run dev server, launch preview
..
[INFO] Starting the development server...
[SUCCESS] Docusaurus website is running at: http://localhost:3000/
```

This should launch the browser to the landing page of the guide as shown below:

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/screenshots/contoso-docs-website-preview.png" width="100%" alt="Contoso Real Estate Developer Guide: Preview"/>
</p>

### 2 | Deploy Website

This repo is not configured for automated deployment of the website to a static site hosting service. However Docusaurus provides [Deployment guidance](https://docusaurus.io/docs/deployment) that works for most options - we've validated this for [Azure Static Web Apps](https://docusaurus.io/docs/deployment#deploying-to-azure-static-web-apps) and [GitHub Pages](https://docusaurus.io/docs/deployment#deploying-to-github-pages).

If you want a hosted version of the guide, we recommend you maintain a personal fork and set it up for automated build-deploy with GitHub Actions. Then keep up-to-date with origin, for content.
 - See [this personal fork](https://github.com/30DaysOf/contoso-real-estate) for a working example for reference
 - Visit [this GitHub Pages endpoint](https://30daysof.github.io/contoso-real-estate/) to see the associated live deployment.
 - Note that this example may _not always reflect the latest repo changes_ in content.
 

### 3 | Test Website

The website comes with its own Playwright testing harness with a separate configuration and a base test specification. Use it for _test-driven documentation_ to validate the existence of routes and sections, and check content for accessibility compliance. _Note - this test suite is separate from e2e testing setup for Contoso Real Estate application (located in `packages/testing`_). 
 - Learn more about test setup in [website/README.TESTING.md](./packages/docs/website/README.md). 
 - Use the following instructions for a quickstart.


```bash
$ cd packages/docs/website     # Set working directory
$ npm install                  # Install dependencies
$ npm run test                 # Run dev server => launches browser to preview
$ npm run report               # View last HTML report => open browser to specified URL
```

Want to understand what the test report provides? You can explore [this cached version of the report](https://30daysof.github.io/contoso-real-estate/playwright-trace/) interactively (screenshot below) to dive into detailed traces. Note that the cached version _will not reflect the latest codebase updates_ and is meant only as an example.

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/screenshots/contoso-docs-website-testreport.png" width="100%" alt="Contoso Real Estate Developer Guide: Test Report"/>
</p>



## Usage costs

Github Codespaces usage is [billed](https://docs.github.com/billing/managing-billing-for-github-codespaces/about-billing-for-github-codespaces) either to an organization or to the user creating it. There are limits to the number of concurrent codespaces you can create or run, so here are a few things to keep in mind:
 - Personal accounts get a [free monthly usage quota](https://docs.github.com/billing/managing-billing-for-github-codespaces/about-billing-for-github-codespaces#monthly-included-storage-and-core-hours-for-personal-accounts) of 120 hours and 15GB storage - enough to explore this project!
 - You can [lookup current usage](https://github.com/settings/billing) or [set spending limits](https://github.com/settings/billing/spending_limit) on your profile - to ensure you don't accidentally exceed your quota or budget.
 - We recommend you [delete codespaces](https://docs.github.com/codespaces/developing-in-codespaces/deleting-a-codespace) you are not actively using, and [configure default retention periods](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/customizing-your-codespace/configuring-automatic-deletion-of-your-codespaces?tool=webui) to maximize usage of your free quota and minimize costs for paid usage.

## Project structure

The project is using `npm` workspaces. The project structure is as follows:

- `packages/` - contains all the packages
  - [`api`](packages/api) - contains the serverless Azure Functions API.
  - [`portal`](packages/portal) - contains the Angular web portal.
  - [`blog`](packages/blog) - contains the Next.js blog.
  - [`blog-cms`](packages/blog-cms) - contains the Strapi CMS.
  - [`docs`](packages/docs) - contains the Developer Guide website
  - [`stripe`](packages/stripe) - contains the Stripe webhook.
  - [`testing`](packages/testing) - contains the Playwright tests.

## Deploy to Azure

### Prerequisites

This project uses [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces) as the main development environment. The following steps assume you are using GitHub Codespaces. If you are not using GitHub Codespaces, you can open the project in a Dev Container locally following the instructions [here](docs/dev-container.md).

### Deploy to Azure

This project uses [Azure Developer CLI (`azd`)](https://aka.ms/azd) to provision infrastructure, package, and deploy the application to Azure. Running the following commands will get you started with deployment.

```bash
# Login to azd. Only required once per install.
# If the command fails, try using the --use-device-code flag
azd auth login

# Provision infrastructure and the azd development environment
azd provision

# Package the app using the environment variables in .azure/env + deploy the code on Azure
azd deploy
```

>The `--use-device-code` is used to log in by using a device code instead of a browser, this may resolve any browser issues while logging in. For more information on when & why to use flags, check [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/reference#azd-auth-login)

> If you encounter issues with the Azure Developer CLI, please open an issue [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-dev/issues/new/choose).

**Important:** It is mandatory to run these `azd` commands in this order. Provisioning first will create the `azd` development environment and outputs the `.env` file with the required environment variables. Packaging will package the application using some of the environment variables from the `.env` file.

**Deployment region:** Your deployment may fail if the region you selected is unavailable for provisioning specific resources. We recommend using `westeurope` as your target region since that has been currently validated for all services.

### Configure CI-CD

Use the following command to configure the CI-CD pipelines:

```bash
azd pipeline config --auth-type client-credentials
```

### Clean up resources

When you are done, you can delete all the Azure resources created with this template by running the following command:

```bash
azd down
```

## Want to help?

Want to file a bug, contribute some code, or improve the documentation? Excellent! Read up on our guidelines for [contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) and then check out one of our issues in the list: [community-help](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/contoso-real-estate/issues).

Commit message:

chore(docs): update diagrams to reflect APIM optional status (#356)
* chore: update mermaid flow
* chore: add optional nature of APIM
* chore: update comment on boolean
* chore: update readme to include instructions to enable APIM

README.md, after:

# Enterprise-grade Reference Architecture for JavaScript

This repository contains the reference architecture and components for building enterprise-grade modern composable frontends (or micro-frontends) and cloud-native applications. It is a collection of best practices, architecture patterns, and functional components that can be used to build and deploy modern JavaScript applications to Azure.


[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://codespaces.new/Azure-Samples/contoso-real-estate?devcontainer_path=.devcontainer/devcontainer.json)

## Table of Contents

You can navigate through the documentation using the table of contents below:

- [Enterprise-grade Reference Architecture for JavaScript](#enterprise-grade-reference-architecture-for-javascript)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Architecture Diagram](#architecture-diagram)
  - [Simplified Flow Diagram](#simplified-flow-diagram)
  - [Components](#components)
    - [Frontend](#frontend)
    - [Backend](#backend)
    - [DevOps](#devops)
    - [Developer tools](#developer-tools)
  - [Development environment](#development-environment)
  - [Developer Guide (Website)](#developer-guide-website)
    - [1 | Preview Website](#1--preview-website)
    - [2 | Deploy Website](#2--deploy-website)
    - [3 | Test Website](#3--test-website)
  - [Usage costs](#usage-costs)
  - [Project structure](#project-structure)
  - [Deploy to Azure](#deploy-to-azure)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Deploy to Azure](#deploy-to-azure-1)
    - [Configure CI-CD](#configure-ci-cd)
    - [Clean up resources](#clean-up-resources)
  - [Want to help?](#want-to-help)

## Architecture Diagram

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/diagrams/e2e-full-horizontal.drawio.png" width="100%" alt="Application architecture diagram"/>
</p>

## Simplified Flow Diagram

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    %% 

    subgraph Internet
    Portal[https://portal.contoso.com]
    Blog[https://blog.contoso.com]
    CMS[https://cms.contoso.com]
    Stripe[https://stripe.contoso.com]
    API[https://api.contoso.com]
    end
    
    subgraph Azure API Management
    APIM(API Gateway)
    end
    
    subgraph Azure Static Web Apps
    SWA_Angular([Angular])
    end 

    subgraph Azure Functions
    Functions([Node.js])
    end 

    subgraph Azure Container Apps
    ACA_Next([Next.js])
    ACA_Strapi([Strapi])
    ACA_Stripe([Stripe])
    end 

    subgraph Database/Storage
    DB_PostresSQL[(PostgreSQL - Strapi)]
    DB_Mongo[(MongoDB - Portal)]
    Storage([Azure Blob Storage - CMS])
    end 

    Portal --> SWA_Angular -- "portal.contoso.com/api/**" --> Functions
    
    Blog -- "blog.contoso.com" --> ACA_Next -. "Strapi API" .-> ACA_Strapi
    
    CMS -- "cms.contoso.com" --> ACA_Strapi
    ACA_Strapi -- "read/write" ----> DB_PostresSQL -- "read only" --> Functions
    ACA_Strapi -- "upload" --> Storage
    
    API --> APIM -- "api.contoso.com" --> Functions <-- "read/write" --> DB_Mongo

    Stripe ---> APIM -- "stripe.contoso.com" --> ACA_Stripe <-. "validate payment (through APIM -optional-)" .-> Functions
    
    %% Portal
    linkStyle 0 stroke:pink
    linkStyle 1 stroke:pink
    linkStyle 2 stroke:pink

    %% Blog
    linkStyle 3 stroke:blue
    linkStyle 4 stroke:blue
    linkStyle 5 stroke:blue
    
    %% CMS
    linkStyle 5 stroke:red
    linkStyle 6 stroke:red
    linkStyle 8 stroke:red
    
    linkStyle 7 stroke:lime
    linkStyle 9 stroke:lime
    linkStyle 10 stroke:lime
    linkStyle 11 stroke:lime
```

## Components

### Frontend

- [Angular](https://angular.io/) - The Portal application used to view and book listings.
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - The Blog application used to view and create blog posts.
- [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) - The end-to-end testing of the Portal application.
- [Azure Static Web Apps](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/app-service/static/) - The hosting of the Portal application.

### Backend

- [Strapi](https://strapi.io/) - The CMS application used to manage the data for the Portal and Blog applications.
- [Stripe](https://stripe.com/) - The payment processing.
- [Fastify](https://www.fastify.io/) - The API used that interfaces with the Stripe API and Portal application.
- [Azure Functions](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/) - The API used to communicate with Portal application.
- [MongoDB for Azure Cosmos DB](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cosmos-db/) - The database used to store the data for the Portal application.
- [Azure Database for PostgreSQL](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/postgresql/) - The database used to store the data for the CMS application.
- [Azure Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/storage/) - The storage used to store the data for the CMS and Blog application.
- [Azure Container Apps](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/container-apps/) - The hosting of the Blog, Stripe and Strapi APIs.
- [Azure Application Insights](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/monitor/) - Monitoring and accessing logs for the applications and APIs.

In order use [API Management](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/api-management), please set the boolean flag `useAPIM` on (./infra/main.bicep) to true. This will provision the API Management instance and configure the APIs to use it. Please note that this will incur additional costs and the provisioning process may take up to 40 minutes.

```bash
### DevOps

- [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) - Provisioning, managing and deploying the application to Azure.
- [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) - The CI/CD pipelines.
- [Azure Developer CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/overview) - The CI/CD pipelines.

### Developer tools

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) - The local IDE experience.
- [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces) - The cloud IDE experience.
- [Azure Static Web Apps CLI](https://azure.github.io/static-web-apps-cli/) - Accelerates the process of building cloud apps on Azure.

## Development environment

This project is optimized for use with [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces), a development environment hosted in the GitHub cloud. Here is how to get started:

1. Fork this repository.
1. Create a new GitHub Codespaces from your fork. This will automatically provision a new Codespaces with all the required dependencies preinstalled and configured.
1. Open the terminal and run `npm install && npm start` to start the development servers.
  *Note: Codespaces will show a series of windows on the right side of the screen while starting all servers. This is normal and expected.*
1. Once all dev servers have started, the following URLs will be available:

| Application    | URL                                                      | Port |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ---- |
| Portal         | https://YOUR-REPO-4280.preview.app.github.dev:4280       | 4280 |
| Blog           | https://YOUR-REPO-3000.preview.app.github.dev:3000       | 3000 |
| Strapi CMS     | https://YOUR-REPO-1337.preview.app.github.dev:1337/admin | 1337 |
| Serverless API | https://YOUR-REPO-7071.preview.app.github.dev:7071/api/  | 7071 |
| Stripe API     | https://YOUR-REPO-4242.preview.app.github.dev:4242       | 4242 |

> _Note: The URLs above are just examples. The URLs will be different for your fork. The ports however will be the same._

## Developer Guide (Website)

The project has a  [Developer Guide](./packages/docs/website/README.md) defined under `packages/docs` and implemented as an interactive website using the [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io) platform.
### 1 | Preview Website 

 - Read the [website/README](./packages/docs/website/README.md) for more details on setting up and building this package. 
 - Use the following instructions for a quickstart.

```bash
$ cd packages/docs/website     # Set working directory
$ npm install                  # Install dependencies
$ npm run start                # Run dev server, launch preview
..
[INFO] Starting the development server...
[SUCCESS] Docusaurus website is running at: http://localhost:3000/
```

This should launch the browser to the landing page of the guide as shown below:

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/screenshots/contoso-docs-website-preview.png" width="100%" alt="Contoso Real Estate Developer Guide: Preview"/>
</p>

### 2 | Deploy Website

This repo is not configured for automated deployment of the website to a static site hosting service. However Docusaurus provides [Deployment guidance](https://docusaurus.io/docs/deployment) that works for most options - we've validated this for [Azure Static Web Apps](https://docusaurus.io/docs/deployment#deploying-to-azure-static-web-apps) and [GitHub Pages](https://docusaurus.io/docs/deployment#deploying-to-github-pages).

If you want a hosted version of the guide, we recommend you maintain a personal fork and set it up for automated build-deploy with GitHub Actions. Then keep up-to-date with origin, for content.
 - See [this personal fork](https://github.com/30DaysOf/contoso-real-estate) for a working example for reference
 - Visit [this GitHub Pages endpoint](https://30daysof.github.io/contoso-real-estate/) to see the associated live deployment.
 - Note that this example may _not always reflect the latest repo changes_ in content.
 

### 3 | Test Website

The website comes with its own Playwright testing harness with a separate configuration and a base test specification. Use it for _test-driven documentation_ to validate the existence of routes and sections, and check content for accessibility compliance. _Note - this test suite is separate from e2e testing setup for Contoso Real Estate application (located in `packages/testing`_). 
 - Learn more about test setup in [website/README.TESTING.md](./packages/docs/website/README.md). 
 - Use the following instructions for a quickstart.


```bash
$ cd packages/docs/website     # Set working directory
$ npm install                  # Install dependencies
$ npm run test                 # Run dev server => launches browser to preview
$ npm run report               # View last HTML report => open browser to specified URL
```

Want to understand what the test report provides? You can explore [this cached version of the report](https://30daysof.github.io/contoso-real-estate/playwright-trace/) interactively (screenshot below) to dive into detailed traces. Note that the cached version _will not reflect the latest codebase updates_ and is meant only as an example.

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/screenshots/contoso-docs-website-testreport.png" width="100%" alt="Contoso Real Estate Developer Guide: Test Report"/>
</p>



## Usage costs

Github Codespaces usage is [billed](https://docs.github.com/billing/managing-billing-for-github-codespaces/about-billing-for-github-codespaces) either to an organization or to the user creating it. There are limits to the number of concurrent codespaces you can create or run, so here are a few things to keep in mind:
 - Personal accounts get a [free monthly usage quota](https://docs.github.com/billing/managing-billing-for-github-codespaces/about-billing-for-github-codespaces#monthly-included-storage-and-core-hours-for-personal-accounts) of 120 hours and 15GB storage - enough to explore this project!
 - You can [lookup current usage](https://github.com/settings/billing) or [set spending limits](https://github.com/settings/billing/spending_limit) on your profile - to ensure you don't accidentally exceed your quota or budget.
 - We recommend you [delete codespaces](https://docs.github.com/codespaces/developing-in-codespaces/deleting-a-codespace) you are not actively using, and [configure default retention periods](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/customizing-your-codespace/configuring-automatic-deletion-of-your-codespaces?tool=webui) to maximize usage of your free quota and minimize costs for paid usage.

## Project structure

The project is using `npm` workspaces. The project structure is as follows:

- `packages/` - contains all the packages
  - [`api`](packages/api) - contains the serverless Azure Functions API.
  - [`portal`](packages/portal) - contains the Angular web portal.
  - [`blog`](packages/blog) - contains the Next.js blog.
  - [`blog-cms`](packages/blog-cms) - contains the Strapi CMS.
  - [`docs`](packages/docs) - contains the Developer Guide website
  - [`stripe`](packages/stripe) - contains the Stripe webhook.
  - [`testing`](packages/testing) - contains the Playwright tests.

## Deploy to Azure

### Prerequisites

This project uses [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces) as the main development environment. The following steps assume you are using GitHub Codespaces. If you are not using GitHub Codespaces, you can open the project in a Dev Container locally following the instructions [here](docs/dev-container.md).

### Deploy to Azure

This project uses [Azure Developer CLI (`azd`)](https://aka.ms/azd) to provision infrastructure, package, and deploy the application to Azure. Running the following commands will get you started with deployment.

```bash
# Login to azd. Only required once per install.
# If the command fails, try using the --use-device-code flag
azd auth login

# Provision infrastructure and the azd development environment
azd provision

# Package the app using the environment variables in .azure/env + deploy the code on Azure
azd deploy
```

>The `--use-device-code` is used to log in by using a device code instead of a browser, this may resolve any browser issues while logging in. For more information on when & why to use flags, check [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/reference#azd-auth-login)

> If you encounter issues with the Azure Developer CLI, please open an issue [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-dev/issues/new/choose).

**Important:** It is mandatory to run these `azd` commands in this order. Provisioning first will create the `azd` development environment and outputs the `.env` file with the required environment variables. Packaging will package the application using some of the environment variables from the `.env` file.

**Deployment region:** Your deployment may fail if the region you selected is unavailable for provisioning specific resources. We recommend using `westeurope` as your target region since that has been currently validated for all services.

### Configure CI-CD

Use the following command to configure the CI-CD pipelines:

```bash
azd pipeline config --auth-type client-credentials
```

### Clean up resources

When you are done, you can delete all the Azure resources created with this template by running the following command:

```bash
azd down
```

## Want to help?

Want to file a bug, contribute some code, or improve the documentation? Excellent! Read up on our guidelines for [contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) and then check out one of our issues in the list: [community-help](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/contoso-real-estate/issues).
